# E-Commerce Sales Analysis

 ### Project overview
 The Revenue Dashboard project aims to provide a comprehensive overview of key revenue metrics for a business, including total 
 revenue, revenue generated by age group, top customers, and customer segmentation based on the presence of children. By 
 visualizing these metrics in an intuitive and interactive dashboard, stakeholders can gain actionable insights into the 
 business's performance and customer demographics.
 
 #### Key Features:

 [1] Total Revenue: Display the total revenue generated over a specified period, providing a high-level snapshot of the 
     business's financial performance.

 [2] Revenue by Age Group: Segment the revenue data based on age groups to analyze purchasing patterns across different 
     demographics. Age groups could be defined in ranges (e.g., 10-20, 21-30, 31-40, etc.).

 [3] Top Customers: Identify and showcase the top customers based on their contribution to revenue. This feature allows 
     stakeholders to focus on nurturing relationships with high-value clients.

 [4] Customer Segmentation by Kids: Differentiate customers based on whether they have children or not. This segmentation 
     provides insights into the preferences and behaviors of customers with families versus those without, enabling targeted 
     marketing strategies.

 ### Data Source
  The primary datasets used for this analysis is an open source file containing detailed information about each 
  sale made by the customers.

 ### Tools
 - SQL Server - Data Analysis.
 - Power BI - Data Cleaning & Creating Reports.

 ### Data Cleaning/Preparation
 In initial data preparation phase, I performed the following task:
 1. Data Loading and inspection.
 2. Handling missing value.
 3. Data cleaning & formatting.

 ### Exploratory Data Analysis
 EDA involved exploring the sales to answer key questions such as:

 - What the average age of customers?
 - determine the total count of customers?
 - categorize customers based on their total orders and purchase. VIP customers have a total order >= 2 and total purchase >= 100; loyal customers have a total order >= 2; others are periodic buyers?
 - Examine revenue based on customer gender?
 - implement a dynamic ranking system to identify the top performing customers?
 - Analyze the percentage of customers with and wthout kids?

 ### Data Analysis
Include some interestiong codes:

 ---Dax code---
 
 OrderAmountandTime = 
    var customerOrders = COUNTROWS(FactTable)
    var FirstpurchaseDate = CALCULATE(MIN(FactTable[OrderDate]), ALLEXCEPT(FactTable, FactTable[CustomerKey]))
    var LastpurchaseDate = CALCULATE(MAX(FactTable[OrderDate]), ALLEXCEPT(FactTable, FactTable[CustomerKey]))
    var timeDifference = LastpurchaseDate - FirstpurchaseDate

    RETURN
        customerOrders
  ---
 ### Results

 The results are Summarized as follows:
 1. Most of the company's revenue is driven by loyal customers followed by the VIP customer.
 2. Over 70% of the customers have kids.
 3. the company's generates 52% more revenue from it female customers than it males.

 ### Recommendations
 - Customer Loyalty Programs: Since most of the company's revenue is driven by loyal customers followed by VIP customers, it's essential to prioritize and invest in customer loyalty programs. Offer rewards, discounts, or exclusive benefits to incentivize repeat purchases and foster long-term relationships with these valuable customer segments.
 - Targeted Marketing for Families: With over 70% of customers having kids, it's evident that families constitute a significant portion of the customer base. Tailor marketing efforts and product offerings to cater to the needs and preferences of families. Develop family-friendly bundles, promotions, or events to attract and retain this demographic.
 - Segmentation and Personalization: Leverage customer data to segment the customer base further and personalize marketing efforts accordingly. Utilize demographic information, purchase history, and behavior data to create targeted campaigns that resonate with specific customer segments.
 - Gender-Specific Marketing Strategies: Given that the company generates 52% more revenue from female customers than male customers, it's crucial to refine marketing strategies to capitalize on this trend.
 
